(upbeat music)
- So a number of years ago I
developed my first invention
to treat bone density.
It became very apparent that
humans are seven times stronger
than they think they are.
And the reason is, we have
vastly different capabilities
of producing power in different positions
of our biomechanics.
And this wasn't really
documented or understood before.
So what X3 does
is allows us to train
with appropriate forces
in different positions,
so it uses extremely heavy latex banding
to deliver the proper forces
in the proper positions.
So I'm holding much more force,
maybe five to seven times a force here,
in this stronger position,
than I am in the weaker position.
The success of X3 has also
driven the success and the
prevalence of band training.
The problem with training
with a band by itself is
you have two options,
either the band is appropriately
forced for rehab training,
or what we really see is rehab
banding being repurposed for fitness,
but nobody's gonna get
stronger with 20 pounds.
When individuals try to use
heavier banding without a bar,
this happens to the wrist.
The wrist gets twisted,
and these are some of the
smallest bones in the body,
and they can get damaged very easily.
So there is a reason why we interface
our feet with flat surfaces so well,
there is a reason that our hand interfaces
with a bar so well,
because that's what
keeps our wrist neutral.
So we all get to train with
a higher amount of weight
than we normally would,
with more repetitions
all while protecting joints,
so that we get a more complete
and more powerful stimulus
to trigger muscle growth.